---
layout: default
title: Core Concepts
parent: Terraform Basics
grand_parent: Terraform
nav_order: '0040'
last_modified_date: 2023-03-21T01:03:34
---

# Core Concepts

* TOC
{:toc}

## Objective

Understand the basics of what Terraform is, project file structure and data types.

## Overview

Terraform uses a domain specific language (DSL) known as HCL. HCL is a
declaritive language. It describes the intended state of what needs to be
provisioned/configured. Rather than tell Terraform how to configure the system,
HCL says what it should be and the provisioner figures out how to do it.
Terraform does not query for resources it does not know about. If a resource is
created outside of Terraform it will not apear in state, plans or applies.
Resources deployed outside of Terraform can often be imported if the provider
supports it.

## File Structure

Terraform looks for all of the .tf files in the current directory and processes
them all as one configuration. Any text file with a .tf extension can be a
Terraform file. By default only the current directory is evaluated. Code can be
seperated in to other directories using the module concept discussed later in
this section. The root directory that terraform is executed against is known as
the root module.

## Data Types

* **string**: text
* **number**: any numeric representation
* **bool**: true or false
* **list/tuple**: an array of values that can be iterated over. ["hello",
"world"]
* **map/object**: key/value representation of values {"hello" = "world}
* **null**: an unquoted null value, used in conditionals and to not set specific
inputs

## Review

In this section we reviewed the basics of the folder structure of a Terraform
project and the data types avaialbe.

## Additional Reading

* [Terraform Language Documentation](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language)
* [Types and Values](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/expressions/types)
